[Research Paper: Cryptography]

**1. The preprocessing phase/SRS generation run time is quasilinear in circuit size**

The preprocessing phase/SRS generation run time is quasilinear in circuit size.

**2. The prover run time is quasilinear in circuit size**

The prover run time is quasilinear in circuit size.

**3. The proof length is logarithmic in circuit size**

The proof length is logarithmic in circuit size.

**4. The verifier run time is polylogarithmic in circuit size**

The verifier run time is polylogarithmic in circuit size.

[MBKM19] constructed for the first time a universal fully succinct Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge (zk-SNARK) for circuit satisfiability, called Sonic. [MBKM19] also gives a version of Sonic with dramatically improved prover run time at the expense of efficient verification only in a certain amortized sense.

**1.1 Our results**

In this work we give a universal fully succinct zk-SNARK with significantly improved prover run time compared to fully-succinct Sonic.

At a high level our improvements stem from a more direct arithmetization of a circuit as compared to the [BCC+16]-inspired arithmetization of [MBKM19]. This is combined with a permutation argument over univariate evaluations on a multiplicative subgroup rather than over coefficients of a bivariate polynomial as in [MBKM19].

In a nutshell, one reason multiplicative subgroups are useful is that several protocols, including Sonic, use a permutation argument based on Bayer and Groth [BG12]. Ultimately, in the "grand product argument" this reduces to checking relations between coefficients of polynomials at "neighboring monomials".

We observe that if we think of points x, g, x as neighbors, where g is a generator of a multiplicative subgroup of a field F, it is very convenient to check relations between different polynomials at such pairs of points.

A related convenience is that multiplicative subgroups interact well with Lagrange bases. For example, suppose H ⊆ F is a multiplicative subgroup of order n and x ∈ H. Then the Lagrange basis polynomial Lx of degree n−1 that vanishes on all but x has very sparse representation.

The polynomial Lx of degree n-1 that vanishes on all but x has very sparse representation.

This is beneficial when constructing an efficiently verifiable BGI12-style permutation argument in terms of polynomial identities.

We use the term SNARK in this paper for what is sometimes called a "SNARK with preprocessing" (see e.g. [GPR13]), where one allows a one-time verifier computation that is polynomial rather than polylogarithmic in circuit size. In return, the SNARK is expected to work for all non-uniform circuits, rather than only statements about uniform computation.

From a theoretical point of view, polylogarithmic proof length is more natural; but logarithmic proof length is sometimes useful in practice. From an experimental point of view, we have found that Sonic with dramatically improved prover run time at the expense of efficient verification only in a certain amortized sense can be very useful.

In many definitions, only proof size is required to be polylogarithmic. For example, in the terminology of [GPR13], additionally requiring verifier run time means the SNARK is "unsubtle".