The extracted Markdown text is below:

# PlonK: Permutations over Lagrange-bases for Oecumenical Noninteractive Arguments of Knowledge
===========================================================

## Authors
--------

*   **Ariel Gabizon** *
    *   Aztec
*   **Zachary J. Williamson**
    *   Aztec
*   **Oana Ciobotaru**
    *   Aztec

## Abstract
----------

zk-SNARK constructions that utilize an updatable universal structured reference string remove one of the main obstacles in deploying zk-SNARKs. The important work of Maller et al. [MBKM19] presented Sonic - the first potentially practical zk-SNARK with fully succinct verification for general arithmetic circuits with such an SRS. However, the version of Sonic enabling fully succinct verification still requires relatively high proof construction overheads. We present a universal SNARK construction with fully succinct verification and significantly lower prover running time (roughly 7.5-20 times fewer group exponentiations than MBKM19 in the fully succinct verifier mode depending on circuit structure). Similarly to MBKM19, we rely on a permutation argument based on Bayer and Groth [BG12]. However, we focus on "Evaluations on a subgroup rather than coefficients of monomials", which enables simplifying both the permutation argument and the arithmetization step.

## Introduction
------------

Due to real-world deployments of zk-SNARKs, it has become of significant interest to have structured reference strings (SRS) that are universally updatable. Meaning that the same SRS can be used for statements about all circuits of a certain bounded size; and that at any point in time the SRS can be updated by a new party, such that the honesty of only one party from all updaters is required for soundness. For brevity, let us call a zk-SNARK with such a setup process "universal". For the purpose of this introduction, let us say a zk-SNARK for circuit satisfiability is fully succinct if:

*   Most of this work was done while the first author was working at Protocol Labs.

## References
----------

[MBKM19] Maller et al. Sonic: Zero-knowledge SNARKs from pairs of quadratic forms without relying on locally computable hash functions. EUROCRYPT 2019. Springer, Cham. pp. 401-429

[BG12] Bayer and Groth. zk-SNARKs for SVP Challenges. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2012.

$$
\begin{aligned}
\text{Let}\ \mathbb{T} = (\mathcal{T}, \mathcal{B}),\ \text{where}\\
\mathcal{T} &= \{0,1\}^{n_{T}}\\
\mathcal{B} &= \{\text{bitstrings of length } n_b,\ \text{such that each bit is 0 with probability}\ p_b\}\\
\end{aligned}
$$